Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease that
is triggered when you get foods containing gluten.
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, and rye.
Exposure to gluten creates an immune response
that attacks the small intestine.
The attack leads to damage of the villi,
the small fingerlike projections
that line the small intestine.
When your small intestine’s villi are damaged,
your small intestine cannot properly
absorb nutrients from food.
This can lead to malnourishment
and other serious health problems.
Symptoms vary and can be different in children and adults.
Common symptoms for children include:
Nausea and vomiting
Chronic diarrhea
Abdominal bloating and pain
Constipation
Pale, foul-smelling stool
Gas
Adults may experience digestive issues as well,
but most experience other symptoms including:
Iron-deficiency anemia
Fatigue
Headaches
Bone or joint pain
Arthritis
Osteoporosis
Nerve problems including tingling,
numbness or pain in the hands and feet
Sores inside the mouth
Itchy skin rash
For most people,
following a strict gluten-free diet
can help manage symptoms
and protect your small intestine.